right turning now to Israel's war on
Hamas Israel says its Army carried out a
large ground incursion in the Gaza Strip
overnight to attack Hamas positions the
military described it as its biggest
incursion into Gaza yet the United
Nations humanitarian coordinator for the
Palestinian territories has warned that
nowhere in Gaza is safe as Israel steps
up its preparations for an expected
ground
Invasion Israeli tanks and Northern Gaza
setting the stage for Israel's next
phase of
combat a full ground war has not started
yet but air strikes are hitting the Gaza
Strip nonstop theyve already reduced
entire neighborhoods to
Rubble because of the bombing
destruction and killing I came to seek
shelter inside this camp with nine
members of my family in two cars I had
to sleep out in the open in the heat for
10 days to get a
tent Israel says it is striking targets
of the islamist militant group Hamas
considered a terrorist organization by
many Western
governments according to the UN about
1.4 million gazin are now displaced the
organization now says nowhere is safe in
the entire Gaza Strip residents there
who have no way out of the strip are
calling for an end to the
hostilities we don't want war we want it
to stop we're so tired we're overwhelmed
we stand in Long cues just to use the
toilets we don't even have basic rights
we are more like lifeless
bodies a Complete Siege imposed by
Israel after the Hamas terror attack has
caused a critical shortage of supplies
and air strikes are impeding eight
deliveries uh we've been asked if we've
been able to deliver to the Turkish
Hospital which is uh perhaps the biggest
provider of cancer services in in Gaza
the answer is no um the answer is no
because we do not have security
guarantees to deliver that Aid
International diplomacy efforts for a
ceasefire have so far failed a ground
war to topple mass now may worsen an
already dire situation in
Gaza well earlier I talked to DW
correspondent tany kma in Jerusalem she
tell me more about the Israeli incursion
into Gaza
overnight while the Israeli military
confirmed only that uh what they
described as a targeted raid into Gaza
they also released uh this video where
you can see tanks and the Infantry
basically moving in they say they
targeted that Hamas infrastructure there
also Hamas militants and the Army Radio
described it as the largest incursion
yet as to date so they also said that
this is done in preparation for the next
stages of combat possibly referring to a
even larger uh ground uh incursion that
uh everybody in Israel at least is
waiting for all of this happens of
course with also massive air bombardment
uh Israeli air bombardment on uh the
Gaza Strip and north and south and we
heard again also uh that Palestinians
still in the north of Gaza where also is
the Gaza City uh were called on leaving
and that prompted also a statement by
the UN un's humanitarian coordinator
this Hastings saying that Palestinians
they face an impossible situation
because some had opted to stay they
don't have the means or they don't want
to leave so it's a very very difficult
situation for the civilian population
there tell you with heard Israel's
primee Minister there explaining that
preparations are still underway for a
ground operation as they have been for
days did he shed uh any new light as to
what we can expect of that
operation well I think he needed to
address the Israeli public there are a
lot of questions being asked where this
is going in Israel uh people are looking
uh what's happening in Gaza obviously
but also what is happening in noris on
the northern border with Hezbollah as
well and uh he didn't say much new he
said that the ground offensive will
happen soon but he didn't give any
details he also said that uh a priority
is still also to get the hostages the
Israeli hostages and other foreign
Nationals that are being held in Gaza
now at the number of
224 only four were were released so far
that are being held in Gaza to get them
out he also briefly touched on saying
that um basically talking about the
responsibility this is one of the big
questions that's being discussed as well
in Israel for uh what happened on
October 7 when Hamas uh breached the
border and went into Southern uh Israel
he said everyone will have to ask and
answer those questions but this will be
done after the war T briefly you you
mentioned the growing tensions in the
north at the border with Lebanon how is
Israel handling the prospect of fighting
on two fronts at the same
time I mean there is a lot of concern
that the second front will be opening
and we've seen over the past two and a
half weeks tensions Rising there lot of
cross border fighting and uh we also uh
see that the Israeli government has
asked you know most of the villages and
towns in the close to the Lebanese
border to evacuate and to go further uh
to the center of the country so there is
concern that a second front will be
opening uh you know there could be
miscalculation military analysts here
are saying there could be a preemptive
Strife by Israel or Hezbollah might join
uh the war as they put it once this
ground Invasion might go
ahead T ker in Jerusalem thank
you let's bring in Hiba Tibi here she's
country director for the humanitarian
organization care responsible for the
West Bank and Gaza she joins us from
rala in the West Bank welcome to the
program he start with a situation in
Gaza you're in daily contact with your
colleagues there what are they telling
you I was just before the interview with
my colleague on phone and they were
explaining to me that the situation is
becoming more and more harder only today
they had to go for bread cues that are
now taking six hours in average to find
a loaf of bread or limited amount it's
like limited amount per family and they
are
for instance my colleague had to leave
at 4:00 a.m. just to reserve a spot in
the queue uh this is not the only issue
that they are facing the water uh in the
beginning the first days of the war they
were able to secure water from the
municipality pumped not clean water the
salty one for Hygiene purposes and they
it used to come for for 3 hours every 3
4 days now it is not coming anymore and
I'm pretty sure that you already heard
about the drinking water water that is
not available in Gaza anymore because it
requires fuel that replaces electricity
for uh pumping and treating the water to
become more
drinkable now Israel has told
Palestinians in the Gaza Strip to leave
the North and move to the South but the
UN says that some Palestinians who did
that who fled their homes in the north
are now going back there because they
can't find safe shelter even in the
South which is supposed to be a safe
zone are your colleagues in a similar
situation unfortunately it's it's a
reality and a fact it's it's a testimony
from my colleagues not one not two the
five of them who are in in who who
evacuated to the South they left their
houses there are no houses to go back to
by the way three of them how their
houses are completely destroyed two of
them they don't know if they can if it's
safe to go back to their homes but they
are unable to stay in the in the South
they are staying in apartment designed
for 10 people but they are sharing it
with 80 people they cannot sleep they
cannot access water and it's under
constant shelling and by the way those
who stayed in the north most of them who
did not evacuate did not evacuate
because of the the fact that they cannot
afford going to the South the the lit of
fuel became extremely expensive so for a
family an average family to transport
from the north I'm talking 10 days ago
because every day by the hour the price
of fuel gets higher every so in the
beginning it would cost the family
around 1,000 shakel which is around
350350 and they cannot afford it right
now you've issued a statement saying
that what's happening in Gaza now is
beyond what your team had envisioned as
a a worst case scenario but things could
get even worse couldn't
they yes unfortunately if the UN as they
announced are going to stop providing
Services if the hospitals are going to
stop their services honestly I I don't
know what will be the situation already
we see doctors we have some contacts
with partners with doctors who are
providing Medical Services they are
doing surgeries using vinegar instead of
the minimum anesthesia uh requirements
they are treating people on the floor
outside the hospitals they are very
tired but still they are trying to find
a way Medical Supply electricity access
to water the the contagious diseases now
are breaking in a very scary way in the
overcrowded shelters in the UN and even
beyond all of the information that we
get unfortunately comes only from the
shelters that are run by the we don't
even count what is happening in the
surrounded surrounding areas with the
crowded Apartments similar to what my
colleagues are facing so this is going
to be an unimaginable imagin
I can't even find words to describe what
will happen if the situation continues
to be like this with no humanitarian
Supply fuel or water restructured in
Gaza and most importantly if the ground
Invasion occur in amid of all of what we
are seeing already
now what is your team doing to prepare
for that scenario about a possible
ground Invasion because everything is
pointing towards that uh ground
operation as as the uh Israeli
government is calling it what are you
doing to prepare for
that I will be very Frank with you care
has been providing the humanitarian
services for war victims since 1945
since the second world
war however now in 2023 we are unable to
fulfill our mandate over the last days
we were able to focus our our
intervention from within a you know that
and also from Egypt what all our
supplies are on the border now what we
try to do is to secure what we have from
on the ground the worst case scenario
that we built our intervention around is
nothing compared to what we are seeing
now no one I'm confirming no one is
prepared to intervene if a a land
Invasion occurs what we are seeing now
is already massive we are learning from
what we have implemented as care
International in Mass Destruction like
what happened in the earthquake in
Turkey but all what we are trying to
find is not even working or suitable if
no if a ceasefire is not attended now if
safe environment is provided for the
humanitarian organizations to fulfill
their mandate saving lives now we are
talking about survival moment it's not
Rehabilitation or restructuring only to
help in people's in people survival mode
hea thank you very much for taking time
to talk with us today that was hea TB
with the humanitarian organization care
speaking to us from rala in the West
Bank well let's get the latest from Gaza
journalist hzm baloa is there and joined
us now on the line ham we understand
that fuel is about to run out in Gaza
and without it there'll be no
electricity what impact is that likely
to have
uh fuel is not only for electricity it's
for everything for water supplies for
desalination stations for drinking water
for hospitals for uh um uh uh for
grocery shops that that have some some
supplies that remain there um um um for
for Hygiene for cleaning and for
collecting the trash from the streets I
can see the piles of of of of trash in
the street um because the the Ona and
municipalities have no fuel for their
tracks to collect these stretches so all
aspects of Life affected by by by the
shortage of a fuel not only the
electricity Israel says that Hamas has
hoarded fuel supplies and that that's
where gazin should get their fuel from
do people in Gaza see it that
way well in Gaza they don't care about
about what's happening on the military
level or in the political level they
care about their daily life um the fuel
is shortage affecting their daily life
there are lines of people are waiting to
fill the galloons to carry some some
water to their places as there is no
pumping of the water to the tanks up in
the the rooftops um um they they go for
for long distance to to get some
drinking water from some place is that
they still provide the water um um they
are looking at like yes sorry uh I was
just hm could you walk us quickly
through some of the things that you've
witnessed there in Gaza during the last
hours well um um most most noticeable
thing that I from early morning hours I
I could hear the the artillery shows no
stop in east of of of uh of Gaza strp
particularly in bage refugee camp in the
central Gaza uh there were some reports
that there was some tanks entered the
the area uh and there were uh some
reports of of of Hamas Fighters fired
some rockets at Israeli Jets
particularly according to the statement
Israeli helicopter and and you know I
see now like I'm I'm close to the street
to get some some signal in my phone um I
see people go and to line at the
bakeries and and some of them they carry
empty gallons to to fill it with the
water ham thank you very much for that
update that was journalist ham baloa in
Gaza